Reflection
Authors: Elaine Demetrion, Liberty Lehr & Emi Neuwalder

Contribution Breakdown
Elaine Demetrion:

Liberty Lehr:
I obtained the first set of key words by reading the scientific reports and extracting key players and phrases pertaining to the private laboratory that relocated to Alderwood and the new laboratory. Then I divided these key phrases into groups to produce csv files of newspaper articles relating to specific topics within the broader problem.
With the developed set of relevant articles I worked to produce the majority of the timeline that we used to find the key players within the conflict and could use to establish a chain of events. Using this information I was able to create hypothesis one which states that there is a positive relationship between City Hall and both laboratories. Then Elaine and I were able to connect the key players to show supportive relationships between different organizations.
I formulated our ideas about the obstacles that we encountered, our solutions and how we might hypothetically redo the assignment.


Emi Neuwalder:
I developed code to parse the newspaper articles and retrieve metadata (title, date, author) and key word frequency to create a dataframe and then used this dataframe and the lists of key phrases developed by Liberty and Elaine to find new key words. I also read many articles about the city council trying to trace cash flow and budgeting and local politics but was unable to collect enough information in a cohesive manner to create a visualization, though I did identify a few more key players through this analysis. Created timeline visualization.

Obstacle and Solution
Originally the vast amount of newspaper articles that we were given was overwhelming. We did not know where to begin or how to find information relevant to our problem. Eventually we decided to construct a basic search engine to find articles relevant to a "laboratory." This helped us identify key players and events which gave us the foundation on which to build our hypotheses.

Reflections on Improving Our Approach We Redid HW01
When we started the assignment, our first step was to look for a visualization that we could produce. Without a thorough understanding of the situation from reading the newspaper articles creating a final project proved impossible. Next time, we will begin by attempting to familiarize ourselves with the data as thoroughly as possible before attempting to construct hypotheses and visualizations.